>> Sarah Drasner: All right, let's
talk about some theory and principle.
You might be like, I'm so
tired of theory and principle.
Don't worry, towards the end of the day,
you're going to be like, too much code,
go back to the theory and principle.
So we just got to get some of the
foundations and basics in before we send
you on your way learning some of
the other more finite details.
So atmospheric and elemental motion,
sometimes the character of
the animation is the whole atmosphere.
And this, actually you should probably go
look at it in your own browsers because it
looks a little bit better there.
But some of the dust and speckles and
things like that are pieces of
the animation that are as important
as the big globs and stuff.
They kind of set the tone for
how that whole space is.
And it takes your animation from being
something that's like a big flat piece of
something moving to something you really
feel like you're in the space of.
So for elemental motion,
further away has less contrast and
is blurrier, so by just making a couple
effects of making it a little less
contrast in color and making it a little
blurrier it's a little more believable.
You should ask questions,
like does the air or
environment around it affect
the movement of the thing?
Like do you have things like
leaves blowing because it's windy?
You can show that wind is happening by
having things affected by that wind.
And reducing precision allows for
understanding.
This might sound weird, but
I'm gonna show you what I mean by this.
And we can combine some techniques.
So if I'm asked to make this smoke,
you might be like, what?
[LAUGH] How am I going to make this smoke,
how does that happen?
How does someone animate smoke like that?
Well if I reduce
the precision of the smoke
I can start to notice
some patterns emerging.
I can start to see that, well,
actually the smoke is made up
of these little ball shapes.
And actually,
if I watch those little ball shapes and
kind of reduce the detail of them,
I can see that what's happening is that
as they're coming down, they move
to the edge of where that smoke is.
And then they hit some sort of
air circulation and they go back.
And then they kind of circle back down
until they get bigger and bigger.
Now that's something I can animate, right?
I can actually take circles and
make them have that motion pattern and
then I can maybe apply a filter
to that whole thing so
that they'll appear like
they're one giant shape.
So you can kind of reduce precision
of some of those elements
to get these kind of
more advanced effects.
So if I'm looking at like sprite and
elemental motion for these robotters,
they're robot otters, so
they're robotters you know.
So they're kind of moving
through this forest.
This isn't like,
a great giant pen or anything, but
the main purpose of the pen is to
show how, if I just showed these two
robotters bouncing,
it wouldn't be super interesting.
But you really get a sense of the space
that they're in by showing them in
the forest, and having things like
that mist come down from the trees.
And that's just done with those effects
that we talked about earlier with the drop
shadows in Illustrator.
>> Sarah Drasner: So here's something,
we've got a little background move.
We've got like a little hovering
effect that we're repeating for
both the robotters and their shadows.
We make sure that it's opposite, so
the shadows are going to get smaller as it
gets further away from the robotter, and
it's going to be opposite to the robotter.
There's a really crazy thing that I
had to do to make this animation.
Basically, the heart pops, it goes, boop.
And if you're using CSS you have to
kind of make that first step go up and
out and then contract back down.
But then there's also this weird thing
that happened in Safari where there's
a bad SVG bug that didn't allow for
opacity and transform at the same time.
And the heart just disappears,
and it looks really bad,
which is really why I used this
pen to segue into JavaScript.
Because, there are, for SVG animation,
JavaScript really works quite well.
In a way that CSS is always going
to be just a little bit buggy.
And if you are thinking, well, CSS has
better performance, not so necessarily.
Request animation frame for SVG dom nodes
has better hardware acceleration and
has better support for a lack of repings.
Like I've done benchmarks for
this then SVG does or then CSS does.
So even when people talk about CSS
animation being more performant,
that's not necessarily the case for
SVG in the same way.
So we're gonna now start talking about how
we would do some animation in JavaScript.